---
title: '#SoDS18'
author: Jen Richmond
date: '2018-06-18'
slug: sods18
categories: []
tags:
  - learning
---

Twitter is such a great R learning resource.
The people who follow the #rstats hashtag are so generous with their time. You can post a question/problem with the hashtag and someone will reply and try and help you within about 20 min. It is awesome.

<!--more-->

Other initiatives like #TidyTuesday provide datawrangling fodder for learners and then a forum to share success (and challenges). Every tuesday @thomas_mock posts a dataset to github, people download it, wrangle it, play with it, plot it and then post their results to twitter with the hashtag #tidytuesday. It is so fun to play with tidy data, do what you can do (given where you are at in your R journey) and then see the range of things that other people do with the same dataset. 

The [@r4dscommunity](https://twitter.com/R4DScommunity), which is organised by Jesse Maegan](https://twitter.com/kierisi) is also awesome. [R for Data Science](http://r4ds.had.co.nz/) is a book by Hadley Wickham and the community is built around working through each chapter of the book in a online book/code club kind of way. They have a slack (which is a bit overwhelming).  I haven't had a chance to dive into, but it looks like an amazing resource; experts to provide advice and beginners who are in the same boat. 

One I discovered recently is [#SoDS18](https://www.becomingadatascientist.com/2018/05/28/summer-of-data-science-2018-sods18-launch-day/). Organised by [Data Science Renee](https://twitter.com/BecomingDataSci), the idea is that you commit to a Summer of Data Science (happens to be winter down here but that is ok), set goals to learn new stuff and share your discoveries. 

I have been feeling like my "to learn" list is getting too big to keep in my head so if nothing else #SoDS18 is a reason to write it down and start to prioritise. 

I want to...

#LEARN MORE ABOUT WRANGLING/PLOTTING
- consolidate dplyr/ggplot knowledge 
    *teach labbies 
    *apply to my own (not so tidy) data


#LEARN MORE ABOUT DATA ANALYSIS
- replace SPSS
  *learn how to do one sample, paired and independent t-tests
  *ANOVA, mixed/repeated measures
- replace repeated measures ANOVA--- learn linear mixed models
- rethink missing data #narniaR


#LEARN MORE R FUN STUFF
- learn gganimate [not sure what kind of data I would ever use this for but it looks SO COOL]
- learn shiny [I think interactive graphics might be super useful in visualising eyetracking data but I dont know enough about how it works to know yet. It would be cool to be able to visualise preferential looking, based on trial number or stimulus type, or age, using sliders in an interactive app- I think that is what shiny does]
- learn regexp via bank statement analysis  https://benjaminlmoore.wordpress.com/2014/01/04/analyse-your-bank-statements-using-r/
- learn to tweet from R
- use blogdown to set up blog to keep track of notes--- tick


